-: Welcome back.
In this lecture, we are going to use
the external DNS for our applications.
Which is nothing but in our ingress manifest,
we are going to add the external DNS related
annotation with the DNS names which we want
to register for our applications.
So, let's get into 0 8, 0 6, 0 2,
and if you see here as a step one
we are going to add this annotation.
So, which is nothing but external
DNS.allfour.Kubernetes.io host name
and provide, We are going to provide
two DNS names for our application
which is DNStestone.cubeoncloud.com
and then DNStesttwo.cubeoncloud.com.
Okay, so cubeoncloud.com.
So, these things we are going to
register now using...
Kubernetes ingress manifest, okay,
so let's do that now.
So, let's go to visual studio cord
and if we go inside here we have the existing
manifest 1, 2, 6 are existing
which is coming from our previous sections
which is nothing but myeskel external name,
and then user management microservice,
and its own secrets.
And then user management note port service
and this is engineers app one and then engineers app two.
So, in 07ALD ingress
SSL redirect with external DNS
you have added the additional information related
to adding the Route 53 domains automatically, right?
So, what happens now is like
whenever we deploy this manifest;
so, inside this cube on cloud,
two more record sets are going to get created
and currently three record sets becomes
five record sets. Okay?
So, let's go ahead and then do that now.
So, let's go ahead and then deploy the stuff.
So, we'll go here and as part
of step two we are going to deploy it.
So, let's go to our terminal
and...
we'll come back of 0 8 0 6 0 1
and we'll go to 0 8, 0 6, 0 2,
right?
And now you'll say Cube CTL apply
-: F and then cube manifests.
So, it should create everything for us now.
So...
let's see, Cube CTL,
get ports, and app one, app two are ready
and external DNS is working as expected.
So, if you want, we can go ahead
and then check our external DNS logs, okay.
So, what is happening we'll come to know.
See, it will wait for some time
and then the logs should get updated.
So, now it said that create
a DNStestonecubeoncloud.com,
okay?
In hosted zone so and so it has created, okay?
So, it is getting created a records
and then TXT records it is getting created inside that.
So, let's, it's successfully updated.
So, we can go back to our browser
and go to route 53
and go to hosted zones,
and you can see two plus two
it has created two area cards
and then two TXT cards, okay?
So, now still it didn't get updated.
Now it got updated.
So, you can see DNS test one
and then DNS test two, these things got updated.
So, with the values of the load balancer,
whatever is provided, okay?
So, now the load balancer is getting created.
So, mostly it is in the provisioning status.
So, let's wait for it to get completed.
After that, we'll do the NS lookup test
and then access our applications, okay?
So, it is in provisioning status.
So, now the load balancer is in active state.
So, let me copy the DNS name here,
and go to here, control C,
clear.
And I'll say, NS lookup,
right?
And first I'll test with our DNS name
of our...
load balancer, okay?
And it is giving some IPs here.
So, I'll say now next I'll send NS lookup
and then I can copy these names here, right?
So, this is the one, right?
I say copy and then test, right?
DNStestone.cubeoncloud.com.
So, you can see the IP is .20.243
so both are same in the same way
let's also test further DNS test two,
okay.
So, IPs are same.
So, now let's go back to our browser
and then access them, right?
So, http//DNStestone.cubeoncloud.com/appone/index.htms
So, it should redirect to https.
See, you can see the certificate here.
So, certificate you can see that.
So, and then, it saved the page successfully.
So, we'll also check for app two and it's good.
And if you want, we can also do it for
user MGMT/healthstatus
So, this also looks good.
So, it's up and running.
So, we can even test with the DNS test two now.
So, in the same browser we can go here
and then change the DNS to DNS test two
and things should be up and running, okay?
So, same for appone/index.html,
okay?
So, that's about with the DNS test two.
So, now let's go ahead and also
clean up whatever we have created.
So, final step is to clean up the
application things, whatever we have created.
We leave the external DNS spot running
in our cluster, okay?
So I'll set cube CTL, delete -F,
and then cube manifests, okay?
So, this should delete whatever we have created
from applications perspective.
So, if we verify our logs related to external DNS
we can see that as part of the cleanup
it also deleted the DNS interest,
whatever we have created.
This is because of the setting whatever we commented here,
policy upset only, okay?
So, if the, if we enable it
this delete should have been not possible, okay?
So, we can even go back to our Route 53 here,
and then go to cubeoncloud and then
it will again end up with only three.
Earlier it is seven, now all DNS test one
and then test two got deleted related to it, okay?
So, that's about one more thing
which we need to be aware of.
So, we will leave it the remaining things
related to,
so, let me say those things also, cube CTL, okay.
Get ports in default, in default namespace
external DNS will be running continuously.
So, and I'll also say cube CTL
get ports hyphen in cube system.
So, one more which is related to our L being
this controller will continuously keep running here.
Okay?
So, what we'll do is, like
whenever we are going to do other sections
also these we are going to leverage anyway.
So, that's the reason we'll keep it running.
So, now you need to understand one thing here.
So, we would've done this just with
app one and then app two only,
why we are continuing this myeskel?
And then user management microservice
from many other sections after RDS
and then classic load balancers
and then all these sections.
So, there is a reason for that, right?
So, whenever we are building architectures, right?
So, it should look like end to end.
Which is nothing but database application tier
and then web tier and everything.
So, that is the case,
you need to have one application which
represents all the features.
So, this application user management microservice
represents means like it'll store the content
in the RDS database in the private subnet.
At the same time,
because of that running the workloads
we have created a private subnet
and inside them only we are running
the Kubernetes workloads.
So, in public subnets we are running the load balancers.
And externally for Route 53,
we are registering the Route 53 DNS URLs.
And using certificate manager,
we are creating the certificate and leveraging that
for our application load balancer using ingress.
So, all these features to include them
that's the reason we have introduced
and then continue this myeskel external
aim service with RDS db.
So, that's about it.
So, whenever it is not in use
you can go ahead and then stop your database, right?
So, it's not going to cost for us that much, okay?
So, that's about it.
So, this completes the...
0 8, 0 6 section
related to ALB ingress with external DNS.
So, in our next lecture we'll discuss another topic.
So, I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.